RISK ASSESSMENT





	This list will provide project managers with a tool for identifying and planning for potential project risks. During the risk assessment, if a potential risk is identified, a solution or plan of action should be developed. Some of the risks will be categorized with the level of risk, such as low, medium or high:

       Low - Very unlikely that this will occur during the life of the project.

       Medium - There is a 50-50 chance that this will occur during the life of the project.

       High - Very likely that this will occur during the life of the project.
       
       
       Risks that can appear during the life of the project and their possible solutions:

1. The usage of a Java programming feature that is relatively new to the project team (LOW).
       Solution: A plan based on training, as a team and individually (using                      
tutorials and documentation) should effectively manage the risk.

2. The size of the project is significantly larger than what the team is used to working on (MEDIUM).
Solution: Size makes a difference in planning and coordination, so   extra time should be spent planning when a project is larger than the team’s previous projects.
       
3. The incompatibility with the Operating System or one of its components (HIGH).
Solution: This issue should be solved by the review of some reference installations, by deploying prototypes and analyzing the compatibility. 

4. Three separate teams are developing the modules of the software being delivered (LOW).
Solution: Because the groups’ members are housed at a different location, frequent meetings and remote discussions are strongly required.

5. The overestimation of our own programming/designing capabilities (MEDIUM).
Solution: We make a technical analysis of each other and we frequently check the provided prototypes of the members before the modelling of their final product.

6. The inconvenience caused by the loss of hardware resources (MEDIUM).
Solution: We frequently backup  our work by saving on a cloud platform and making hard copies.

7. The duration of the Scan is longer than expected or isn’t in a resonable amount of time. (HIGH).
Solution: The module will have implemented efficient algorithms that can speed up the process of scanning.

8. The report will not be understandable or it will containt corruped data. (LOW).
Solution: A simple solution of this problem would be the development of a simple and readable XML file that can be interpreted by any program.
